# vpn-up-for-openconnect
VPN Up - Shell Script for OpenConnect for Mac OS | Command-Line Client for Cisco AnyConnect

### Features ###

A shell script for OpenConnect which allows:</br>
- to define multiple VPN connections, using different protocols</br>
- to run openconnect without entering the username and password</br>
- to run in the background / quietly</br>
- to authenticate with a certificate</br>
- to authenticate using Two-Factor Authentication (2FA) from Duo
- to check the status of the vpn connection

### What's new ###
- externalized application configuration and profiles
- 🆒 added support for Two-Factor Authentication (2FA) from Duo
- added support for using different protocols</br>
- added options (start, stop, status, restart, status)</br>
- can check status of the vpn connection

### Sample configuration section ###

readonly SUDO=FALSE
        # TRUE
        # FALSE

readonly SUDO_PASSWORD=""

readonly BACKGROUND=TRUE
        # TRUE          Runs in background after startup
        # FALSE         Runs in foreground after startup

readonly QUIET=TRUE
        # TRUE          Less output
        # FALSE         Detailed output

### Sample VPN profile ###

# VPN PROFILE 1
export VPN1_NAME="My Company VPN"
export VPN1_PROTOCOL=anyconnect
#      ├ anyconnect       Compatible with Cisco AnyConnect SSL VPN, as well as ocserv (default)
#      ├ nc               Compatible with Juniper Network Connect
#      ├ gp               Compatible with Palo Alto Networks (PAN) GlobalProtect SSL VPN
#      └ pulse            Compatible with Pulse Connect Secure SSL VPN
export VPN1_HOST=vpn.mycompany.com
export VPN1_AUTHGROUP=developers
export VPN1_USER=sorinipate
export VPN1_PASSWD="MyPassword"
export VPN1_DUO2FAMETHOD="push" # Duo 2FA Method
#      ├ passcode         Log in using a passcode, either generated with Duo Mobile, sent via SMS, generated by your hardware token, or provided by an administrator. E.g. to use the passcode “123456," type 123456
#      ├ push             Push a login request to your registered phone (if you have Duo Mobile installed and activated on your iOS, or Windows phone device). Just review the request and select Approve to log in.
#      ├ phone            Authenticate via callback to your registered phone.
#      └ sms              Sends an SMS message with a new batch of passcodes to your registered device. Your initial login attempt will fail. Login again with one of the new passcodes.
export VPN1_SERVER_CERTIFICATE="SHA1-OtherCharachters" # SHA1

### Run VPN Up ###

1. Please make sure you have `openconnect` installed before moving on. Follow the instructions [here](https://formulae.brew.sh/formula/openconnect).
2. [Download the latest release](https://github.com/sorinipate/vpn-up-for-openconnect/releases/tag/v1.3-alpha).
3. Move the `vpn-up-for-openconnect` folder to the `bin` folder.
4. Update the `vpn-up.command.config` file with the appropiate settings as shown above.
5. Update the `vpn-up.command.profiles` file with the appropiate VPN connection information as shown above. Also, ensure that the number of profiles match the options available in the `vpn-up.command` file (options=("$VPN1_NAME" "$VPN2_NAME" "Quit")) and in the select.
5. Make an alias `alias vpn-up='~/bin/vpn-up-for-openconnect/vpn-up.command'` in `bash` or `zsh` shell. Follow the instructions [here](https://wpbeaches.com/make-an-alias-in-bash-or-zsh-shell-in-macos-with-terminal/?__cf_chl_jschl_tk__=60015f4af93b104457efe3f2c7cd70de60ea05aa-1620807543-0-Ab8kPRiPbnWqJwPgGZ3k9zQ7t6ZrVnGiWZZGwLH1zmtS0Z2_I9_4k3484HAUDxe0WrYTgXZcYJg86SM895qayJYySOYhh0XdTBtOZwfa-KKLrgR-KJ9rvQmIas6UVdqHdedjUmCgljtFoxzGKguvu1TZ0NA_WAt8FrrfYo8aYhaXFXFVPkhvarI2mI1vWHc06ROepAwLTHfibEXn6VIiC02c0s3RD_5h_NsByw_6eWHESbqdUTnahAA-ls6lgQ7wY556EShckoVIvPGgnLWlYb4diIXOKntvTKMrPAtndHnB1oGY9RC8tZlfDlRrdnB4d6aaKgyp1uKgL77BPmmuRP9TDI3cnqGJoKc9_-Og5t5H2mOPjgo7La9F6Nja6Pn6jnyExLDsYvoASWdOG6mlYdP8IVQ9MXKJcoYphsdiZNuv4WxieW9GY7rPIdMQ0y2Rq9Rae04fi0JFl7GdQKEbC0uEY5umB5Bd9Dsc1aY6xb85).
6. Run `vpn-up` to start and voilà.
